<a name="9" />
# 9 方法定义

本章中定义了HTTP/1.1中所使用的通用方法。具体实现的时候，可以对这里定义的方法进行扩展，但不能认为客户端和服务器端都能完全支持扩展功能。

主机的请求头（参见[14.23][1]）**必须（MUST）**随所有HTTP/1.1请求一起发送。

<a name="9.1" />
## 9.1 安全方法与幂等方法

<a name="9.1.1" />
### 9.1.1 安全方法

HTTP/1.1的实现者应该注意到的一点是，在用户与资源的交互过程中，软件实际上扮演的是用户的角色。因此，在实现那些可能会使用户意识到他们的行为可能会给其他用户或资源产生副作用时，应该仔细慎重。

具体来说，约定俗成的规则是，除了获取数据外，**GET**和 **HEAD**方法 **不应该（SHOULD NOT）**产生副作用，这两个方法也被认为是 **安全的（safe）**。按照这个规则，用户端代理可以区别对待其他方法（如 **POST** **PUT** **DELETE**），以便使用户意识到其正在发送的可能一个是不安全的请求。

当然，这只是不成文的规定，不能保证服务器在执行 **GET**请求时肯定不会产生副作用；事实上，某些动态资源将之看作是一种特性。这里的问题在于，用户发送请求时并未意识到请求会产生副作用，因此也无法对发送的请求负责。

<a name="9.1.2" />
### 9.1.2 幂等方法（Idempotent Methods）

幂等方法是指，服务器在处理使用该方法多次发送相同的请求时，所产生的副作用与只处理一个请求相同（发生错误或过期除外）。 **GET** **HEAD** **PUT** **DELETE**方法均是幂等方法，此外，**OPTIONS**和 **TRACE**方法 **不应该**产生副作用，因此简介的具有幂等这个属性。

但是，需要注意的是，多个幂等方法组成的请求序列不一定还是幂等的，只有当该请求序列的执行结果不会因为重复执行（全部或部分请求序列）而变化时，才称之为幂等的。例如，当请求序列的结果依赖于最后某个属性值的修改时间时，就不是幂等的。

根据定义，（假设在目标资源上不会有并发操作）幂等的请求序列不会产生副作用。

<a name="9.2" />
## 9.2 OPTIONS

以`OPTIONS`方法向指定URI发送请求，可以获取到与之相关的通信选项信息。该方法允许客户端可以在不初始化资源请求或不指明资源操作的情况下，获知与目标资源相关的选项信息或者服务器的功能信息。

针对该方法的响应是不可缓存的（not cacheable）。

如果以`OPTIONS`方法发送的请求中包含了请求体（比如包含了`Content-Length`或`Transfer-Encoding`请求头），则 **必须(MUST)**在请求头`Content-Type`中指定媒体类型。尽管在本规范中并没有定义该请求体的用途，不过在将来的HTTP扩展中，可能会使用请求体来向服务器发送更详细的查询条件。若服务器不支持该种扩展，则 **可能会（MAY）**丢弃该请求体。

   If the Request-URI is an asterisk ("*"), the OPTIONS request is
   intended to apply to the server in general rather than to a specific
   resource. Since a server's communication options typically depend on
   the resource, the "*" request is only useful as a "ping" or "no-op"
   type of method; it does nothing beyond allowing the client to test
   the capabilities of the server. For example, this can be used to test
   a proxy for HTTP/1.1 compliance (or lack thereof).

如果请求URI是一个星号（*），则该请求所

   If the Request-URI is not an asterisk, the OPTIONS request applies
   only to the options that are available when communicating with that
   resource.

   A 200 response SHOULD include any header fields that indicate
   optional features implemented by the server and applicable to that
   resource (e.g., Allow), possibly including extensions not defined by
   this specification. The response body, if any, SHOULD also include
   information about the communication options. The format for such a
   body is not defined by this specification, but might be defined by
   future extensions to HTTP. Content negotiation MAY be used to select
   the appropriate response format. If no response body is included, the
   response MUST include a Content-Length field with a field-value of
   "0".

   The Max-Forwards request-header field MAY be used to target a
   specific proxy in the request chain. When a proxy receives an OPTIONS
   request on an absoluteURI for which request forwarding is permitted,
   the proxy MUST check for a Max-Forwards field. If the Max-Forwards
   field-value is zero ("0"), the proxy MUST NOT forward the message;
   instead, the proxy SHOULD respond with its own communication options.
   If the Max-Forwards field-value is an integer greater than zero, the
   proxy MUST decrement the field-value when it forwards the request. If
   no Max-Forwards field is present in the request, then the forwarded
   request MUST NOT include a Max-Forwards field.

<a name="9.3" />
## 9.3 GET

   The GET method means retrieve whatever information (in the form of an
   entity) is identified by the Request-URI. If the Request-URI refers
   to a data-producing process, it is the produced data which shall be
   returned as the entity in the response and not the source text of the
   process, unless that text happens to be the output of the process.

   The semantics of the GET method change to a "conditional GET" if the
   request message includes an If-Modified-Since, If-Unmodified-Since,
   If-Match, If-None-Match, or If-Range header field. A conditional GET
   method requests that the entity be transferred only under the
   circumstances described by the conditional header field(s). The
   conditional GET method is intended to reduce unnecessary network
   usage by allowing cached entities to be refreshed without requiring
   multiple requests or transferring data already held by the client.

   The semantics of the GET method change to a "partial GET" if the
   request message includes a Range header field. A partial GET requests
   that only part of the entity be transferred, as described in section
   14.35. The partial GET method is intended to reduce unnecessary
   network usage by allowing partially-retrieved entities to be
   completed without transferring data already held by the client.

   The response to a GET request is cacheable if and only if it meets
   the requirements for HTTP caching described in section 13.

   See section 15.1.3 for security considerations when used for forms.

<a name="9.4" />
## 9.4 HEAD

   The HEAD method is identical to GET except that the server MUST NOT
   return a message-body in the response. The metainformation contained
   in the HTTP headers in response to a HEAD request SHOULD be identical
   to the information sent in response to a GET request. This method can
   be used for obtaining metainformation about the entity implied by the
   request without transferring the entity-body itself. This method is
   often used for testing hypertext links for validity, accessibility,
   and recent modification.

   The response to a HEAD request MAY be cacheable in the sense that the
   information contained in the response MAY be used to update a
   previously cached entity from that resource. If the new field values
   indicate that the cached entity differs from the current entity (as
   would be indicated by a change in Content-Length, Content-MD5, ETag
   or Last-Modified), then the cache MUST treat the cache entry as
   stale.

<a name="9.5" />
## 9.5 POST

   The POST method is used to request that the origin server accept the
   entity enclosed in the request as a new subordinate of the resource
   identified by the Request-URI in the Request-Line. POST is designed
   to allow a uniform method to cover the following functions:

      - Annotation of existing resources;

      - Posting a message to a bulletin board, newsgroup, mailing list,
        or similar group of articles;

      - Providing a block of data, such as the result of submitting a
        form, to a data-handling process;

      - Extending a database through an append operation.

   The actual function performed by the POST method is determined by the
   server and is usually dependent on the Request-URI. The posted entity
   is subordinate to that URI in the same way that a file is subordinate
   to a directory containing it, a news article is subordinate to a
   newsgroup to which it is posted, or a record is subordinate to a
   database.

   The action performed by the POST method might not result in a
   resource that can be identified by a URI. In this case, either 200
   (OK) or 204 (No Content) is the appropriate response status,
   depending on whether or not the response includes an entity that
   describes the result.

   If a resource has been created on the origin server, the response
   SHOULD be 201 (Created) and contain an entity which describes the
   status of the request and refers to the new resource, and a Location
   header (see section 14.30).

   Responses to this method are not cacheable, unless the response
   includes appropriate Cache-Control or Expires header fields. However,
   the 303 (See Other) response can be used to direct the user agent to
   retrieve a cacheable resource.

   POST requests MUST obey the message transmission requirements set out
   in section 8.2.

   See section 15.1.3 for security considerations.

<a name="9.6" />
## 9.6 PUT

   The PUT method requests that the enclosed entity be stored under the
   supplied Request-URI. If the Request-URI refers to an already
   existing resource, the enclosed entity SHOULD be considered as a
   modified version of the one residing on the origin server. If the
   Request-URI does not point to an existing resource, and that URI is
   capable of being defined as a new resource by the requesting user
   agent, the origin server can create the resource with that URI. If a
   new resource is created, the origin server MUST inform the user agent
   via the 201 (Created) response. If an existing resource is modified,
   either the 200 (OK) or 204 (No Content) response codes SHOULD be sent
   to indicate successful completion of the request. If the resource
   could not be created or modified with the Request-URI, an appropriate
   error response SHOULD be given that reflects the nature of the
   problem. The recipient of the entity MUST NOT ignore any Content-*
   (e.g. Content-Range) headers that it does not understand or implement
   and MUST return a 501 (Not Implemented) response in such cases.

   If the request passes through a cache and the Request-URI identifies
   one or more currently cached entities, those entries SHOULD be
   treated as stale. Responses to this method are not cacheable.

   The fundamental difference between the POST and PUT requests is
   reflected in the different meaning of the Request-URI. The URI in a
   POST request identifies the resource that will handle the enclosed
   entity. That resource might be a data-accepting process, a gateway to
   some other protocol, or a separate entity that accepts annotations.
   In contrast, the URI in a PUT request identifies the entity enclosed
   with the request -- the user agent knows what URI is intended and the
   server MUST NOT attempt to apply the request to some other resource.
   If the server desires that the request be applied to a different URI,
   it MUST send a 301 (Moved Permanently) response; the user agent MAY
   then make its own decision regarding whether or not to redirect the
   request.

   A single resource MAY be identified by many different URIs. For
   example, an article might have a URI for identifying "the current
   version" which is separate from the URI identifying each particular
   version. In this case, a PUT request on a general URI might result in
   several other URIs being defined by the origin server.

   HTTP/1.1 does not define how a PUT method affects the state of an
   origin server.

   PUT requests MUST obey the message transmission requirements set out
   in section 8.2.

   Unless otherwise specified for a particular entity-header, the
   entity-headers in the PUT request SHOULD be applied to the resource
   created or modified by the PUT.

<a name="9.7" />
## 9.7 DELETE

   The DELETE method requests that the origin server delete the resource
   identified by the Request-URI. This method MAY be overridden by human
   intervention (or other means) on the origin server. The client cannot
   be guaranteed that the operation has been carried out, even if the
   status code returned from the origin server indicates that the action
   has been completed successfully. However, the server SHOULD NOT
   indicate success unless, at the time the response is given, it
   intends to delete the resource or move it to an inaccessible
   location.

   A successful response SHOULD be 200 (OK) if the response includes an
   entity describing the status, 202 (Accepted) if the action has not
   yet been enacted, or 204 (No Content) if the action has been enacted
   but the response does not include an entity.

   If the request passes through a cache and the Request-URI identifies
   one or more currently cached entities, those entries SHOULD be
   treated as stale. Responses to this method are not cacheable.

<a name="9.8" />
## 9.8 TRACE

   The TRACE method is used to invoke a remote, application-layer loop-
   back of the request message. The final recipient of the request
   SHOULD reflect the message received back to the client as the
   entity-body of a 200 (OK) response. The final recipient is either the
   origin server or the first proxy or gateway to receive a Max-Forwards
   value of zero (0) in the request (see section 14.31). A TRACE request
   MUST NOT include an entity.

   TRACE allows the client to see what is being received at the other
   end of the request chain and use that data for testing or diagnostic
   information. The value of the Via header field (section 14.45) is of
   particular interest, since it acts as a trace of the request chain.
   Use of the Max-Forwards header field allows the client to limit the
   length of the request chain, which is useful for testing a chain of
   proxies forwarding messages in an infinite loop.

   If the request is valid, the response SHOULD contain the entire
   request message in the entity-body, with a Content-Type of
   "message/http". Responses to this method MUST NOT be cached.

<a name="9.9" />
## 9.9 CONNECT

   This specification reserves the method name CONNECT for use with a
   proxy that can dynamically switch to being a tunnel (e.g. SSL
   tunneling [44]).






[1]:    14.md#14.23